FF115 URL.canParse() supported (#27266)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/url/canparse_static/index.md

---
title: "URL: canParse() static method"
short-title: canParse()
slug: Web/API/URL/canParse_static
page-type: web-api-static-method
browser-compat: api.URL.canParse
---

{{ApiRef("URL API")}}

The **`URL.canParse()`** static method of the {{domxref("URL")}} interface returns a boolean indicating whether or not an absolute URL, or a relative URL combined with a base URL, are parsable and valid.

> This a fast and easy alternative to constructing a `URL` within a try-catch handler.

Author: ```suggestion
This a fast and easy alternative to constructing a `URL` within a [try...catch](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block.
```

if ("canParse" in URL) {
  log("Test valid absolute URL");
  let url = "https://developer.mozilla.org/";
  let result = URL.canParse(url);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}"): ${result}`);

  log("\nTest relative URL with no base URL absolute URL");
  url = "/en-US/docs";
  result = URL.canParse(url);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}"): ${result}`);

  log("\nTest relative URL with valid base URL");
  let baseUrl = "https://developer.mozilla.org/";
  result = URL.canParse(url, baseUrl);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}","${baseUrl}"): ${result}`);
} else {
  log("URL.canParse() not supported");
}
```

Last of all, below the code shows that the `baseUrl` doesn't have to be a string.
Here we have passed a `URL` object.

```js
if ("canParse" in URL) {
  log("\nTest relative URL with base URL define to be a URL object");
  let baseUrl = new URL("https://developer.mozilla.org/");
  let url = "/en-US/docs";
  result = URL.canParse(url, baseUrl);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}","${baseUrl}"): ${result}`);
}
```

The results of each of the checks are shown below.

{{EmbedLiveSample('Examples', '100%', '200')}}

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

> - {{domxref("URL.URL", "URL()")}}

Reviewer: Please, add [a link to `core-js` polyfill](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#url-and-urlsearchparams).

Author: Thanks very much

```suggestion
- {{domxref("URL.URL", "URL()")}}
- [A polyfill of `URL.canParse()`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js#url-and-urlsearchparams) is available in [`core-js`](https://github.com/zloirock/core-js)
```

---
title: "URL: canParse() static method"
short-title: canParse()
slug: Web/API/URL/canParse_static
page-type: web-api-static-method

> browser-compat: api.URL.canParse

Author: ```suggestion
browser-compat: api.URL.canParse_static
```

This a fast and easy alternative to constructing a `URL` within a [try...catch](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) block.
It returns `true` for the same values for which the [`URL()` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL/URL) would succeed, and `false` for the values that would cause the constructor to throw.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
URL.canParse(url)
URL.canParse(url, base)
```

### Parameters

- `url`
  - : A string or any other object with a {{Glossary("stringifier")}} — including, for example, an {{htmlelement("a")}} or {{htmlelement("area")}} element — that represents an absolute or relative URL.
    If `url` is a relative URL, `base` is required, and will be used as the base URL.
    If `url` is an absolute URL, a given `base` will be ignored.
- `base` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string representing the base URL to use in cases where `url` is a relative URL.
    If not specified, it defaults to `undefined`.

> **Note:** The `url` and `base` arguments will each be stringified from whatever value you pass, just like with other Web APIs that accept a string.

> > In particular, you can use an existing {{domxref("URL")}} object for either argument, and it will stringify to the object's {{domxref("URL.href", "href")}} property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> In particular, you can use an existing {{domxref("URL")}} object for either argument, and it will stringify the object's {{domxref("URL.href", "href")}} property.
```

?

Reviewer 3: "Stringify to x" = the output is x
"Stringify x" = the input is x

Author: Thanks I see the confusion I've injected here. Suggestion not quite right because the "it" is unclear. Perhaps this makes it more clear:

```suggestion
> In particular, you can use an existing {{domxref("URL")}} object for either argument, and it will be stringified to the object's {{domxref("URL.href", "href")}} property.
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this is more understandable to me!

### Return value

`true` if the URL can be parsed and is valid; `false` otherwise.

## Examples

This live example demonstrates how to use the `URL.canParse()` static method for a few different absolute and relative URL values.

The first part of the example defines an HTML `<pre>` element to log to, along with a logging method `log()`.

```html
<pre id="log"></pre>
```

```js
const logElement = document.getElementById("log");
function log(text) {
  logElement.innerText += `${text}\n`;
}
```

Next we check that the `URL.canParse()` method is supported using the condition `"canParse" in URL`.
If the method is supported we log the result of checking an absolute URL, a relative URL with no base URL, and a relative URL with a valid base URL.
We also log the case when `URL.canParse()` is not supported.

```js
if ("canParse" in URL) {
  log("Test valid absolute URL");
  let url = "https://developer.mozilla.org/";
  let result = URL.canParse(url);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}"): ${result}`);

>   log("\nTest relative URL with no base URL absolute URL");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  log("\nTest relative URL with no base URL");
```

  url = "/en-US/docs";
  result = URL.canParse(url);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}"): ${result}`);

  log("\nTest relative URL with valid base URL");
  let baseUrl = "https://developer.mozilla.org/";
  result = URL.canParse(url, baseUrl);
  log(` URL.canParse("${url}","${baseUrl}"): ${result}`);
} else {
  log("URL.canParse() not supported");
}
```

> Last of all, below the code shows that the `baseUrl` doesn't have to be a string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Last of all, the code below shows that the `baseUrl` doesn't have to be a string.
```

Here we have passed a `URL` object.

```js
if ("canParse" in URL) {

>   log("\nTest relative URL with base URL define to be a URL object");

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  log("\nTest relative URL with base URL supplied as a URL object");
```
